---
layout: post
title:  "The E-Mail!"
date:   2018-04-23 22:59:00 +0530
published: false
categories: jekyll update
---

I am writing this post on April 14, 2018 at 0335 hours GMT+0530. It was just another night. I was about to set my alarm before putting the mobile on Airplane mode for the night and all of a sudden, at 0149 hours, I observe two consecutive vibrations from the phone. I opened it to read another random "9 more jobs for you in Computer Science Internships" from [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/). Never ever did I know, even in my wildest dreams, these were E-mails from developers ([Kai Torben Ohulus](https://siko1056.github.io/)  from Germany and Doug Stewart from London, ON, Canada) at GNU Octave asking me if I was still interested in GSoC for GNU Octave!!! I was literally out of my breath at that moment. Happiness had filled my room (I was jumping around and laughing and screaming and what not). I'd gone insane. Out of nowhere, it was invitaion to me for GSoC-2018!!! 

__FAITH IN KARMA, RESTORED. You do get served what you deserve.__ 

All the work and mid-night owl had finally reaped (I still remember that night when in order to implement a refactored code, I changed around 50 files in the code base only to know 2 days further that I had done it the wrong way). After so many depressed days when I was literally hopeless for any good in my life, after trying everything I could to bring things back on track, the E-Mails struck me as if my own Gaurdian Angel had sent it for me through the mentors. 

I'll be posting this on 23rd, because finally the selected-students-list must be out and I would be one of the GSoC developers in its 2018 edition. Heartful thanks to Kai T. Ohulus, Doug Stewart, Ankit Raj and others who saw my potential and chose me even when there were conflicts about the project choice that I had made. I would never forget this night. By the way, in between, my Linux system also crashed (I accidently deleted the `PATH` variable and got stuck in login loop) but I managed to overcome it pretty quick. Thanks for reading, will be posting next update soon. Looking forward to a bug-free and code-some summer. :-)